behind many political stories lurks a
hidden agenda this disturbing movement
is exposed by cheryl atkinson in her
latest book and as a journalist with
more than 30 years experience she has
the stories to back it up the smear why
the title I think it encapsulates this
trend that I talk about that's happening
in Washington DC but has an impact
really all over the world in our
one-on-one the hard-hitting
investigative journalist told me the
ultimate goal is control there's an
industry that is paid to go after and
target journalists whistleblowers
political figures whatever it may be and
inundate our consciousness and the
images we see to try to ruin destroy or
smear the idea that they don't like or
the person who's delivering it on behalf
of paid corporate or political interests
in her latest book she pulls back the
curtain on how sophisticated operatives
work to establish storylines manipulate
journalists and ultimately shape what
you think I quote one of the smear
artist himself that kind of gave me
chills when he said everything you see
is put there for a reason he said it's
like a movie that every it's like a
scene in a movie that the images that
you've come across whether it's what a
comedian jokes about on a national
program whether it's social media
whether it's on the news he says it's
put there for a reason
often by somebody who paid a lot of
money to put it there she points to this
past election as a primary example of
the smear machine operating at full
speed there was the idea that maybe in
the past conservatives have had the edge
but for 2016 going to that race all
seemed to agree Democrats had controlled
the messaging particularly when it came
to using the news media to the extent
conservatives try to control the news
message yes they would like to just as
much but they don't have as much of a
receptive ear in the news media so
they're not able to do it as effectively
and what you see in the book I've used
their own statistics from emails
returned through FOIA requests or
sometimes exposed by WikiLeaks these
groups say how they were able to
influence the narrative they name names
they talk about the news publications
and networks that publish the stories
they wanted them to publish I've even
published emails the
between journalists and these interests
that they're supposed to cover showing
what I call transactional journalism
which i think is epically inappropriate
where they're making deals with the
newsmakers it covers things a certain
way so help me God
although Democrats may have been more
effective Republicans ultimately won
åkesson says this could be because
voters are becoming more media savvy are
people getting wise to these techniques
are they seeing through some of the
narratives because I think it's it's
fair to say 90% of the news narrative
was in one direction and yet Donald
Trump still managed to overcome what
this huge machine had built against him
Democrats Republicans in the media to
become president today one reoccurring
narrative is Russia President Trump says
that this Russian probe is a political
witch-hunt you have James Comey who
admitted to leaking documents to spur on
the special counsel and then the special
counsel is Robert Mueller who's one of
his friends and then Robert Muller goes
and hires friends of the Clintons his
President Trump on to something is this
a political witch-hunt yes he is on to
something president Trump is correct
when he says that this is a witch-hunt
in some respect based on the evidence to
date and based on President Obama's own
Intel experts who not only didn't see
any evidence of collusion between Donald
Trump and the Russians by their own
account but also by the account of any
all public information Democrats and
Republicans alike who haven't seen the
connection and yet you've seen and
dominate the news narrative I call it
like the Brady Bunch Marcia Marcia
Marcia you just hear Russia Russia
Russia all the time and there have been
wildly incorrect reports from some
formerly top well respected news outlets
in the nation about all of this and in
some cases they haven't even corrected
or done maiya culpas when what they
report has been found to be false it's
not that the Russia question doesn't
deserve some investigation but the
coverage for it is so wildly
disproportionate to the evidence at
large whether it's Russia coverage or
any other story Atkinson says to step
back and ask questions and when it comes
to so-called experts our fact checkers
really trustworthy
I quote some surveys and research that's
been done on this that found indeed the
fact checkers that hold themselves out
to be independent where you may turn to
to say I really wanted the truth about
this or that so I can go to a fact
checker it turns out they're not so
independent in many cases take Snopes
for example we found instances where
they're very good at fact-checking some
things but have been co-opted by special
interests on some topics where they put
out incorrect misleading biased or even
false information a big one to watch out
for she says is a source many of us know
well you look at Wikipedia some people
say for the facts even though they know
volunteer editors are at play but they
don't know the extent to which corporate
interests and big PR firms pretend to be
volunteer editors and have developed
strong editing priveleges to control the
pages of certain topics and people so
that they smear some people or protect
others from having negative things
published so that they're furthering
certain ideas of paid interest that you
don't know about if there's one thing a
cousin wants you to learn from her book
it's this nearly every image that's put
before them in the words of the people
who operate in this universe is put
before them for a reason by an interest
that is often not disclosed and that
should make you question when you see
themes and memes coming up on social
media and common ideas expressed over
and over again that should make you
question who's behind it who wants me to
think this way and what is their agenda
she says asking questions doesn't
necessarily mean a story is false but
it's important to make sure you're
getting the whole story and approaching
almost every story you read with a
healthy dose of skepticism for cbn news
i'm jenna Browder
you